stay tuned for math in video numbers
weeks.they I want to talk about how to
achieve balance at university or in
medical school basically when you leave
high school and you go to university
your responsibilities are gonna
skyrocket you won't have your mom and
dad around to do a lot of things that
they usually did for you now you have to
do your own laundry you need to cook
your own food to carry going
transportation so a lot of things change
trying to find that balance is probably
the hardest thing that you can do but
once you do find it it makes all the
other aspects of your life so much
easier so how do you balance all these
different parts of your life while still
succeeding in school I'm gonna break
this video down into seven different sub
topics academics time management
socializing relaxation relationships
food and exercise I think those seven
are gonna encompass most of what you'll
be balancing at University and it's a
good place to start you can talk about
any of the other six things without
starting off with time management time
management skills are going to be
essential at university I know there's a
lot of people who get away with doing
things last second that leads to a lot
of stress and potentially doing worse in
your academics than you would like what
do I do to manage my time making plans
is extremely extremely important so
using the calendar and inputting all the
things that I planned through that day
in my calendar also to-do list when you
make it to-do list it's very important
for me to put a small box next to the
thing that I write down so that I can
take it off at the end
the actual action of taking makes you
feel so good even if it's something
small very importantly is making sure
that it's realistic a lot of the times
people will add so many tasks and so
many objectives on their list that they
can't actually complete in a day you
need to be honest with yourself and
realize how much work you can do so that
you can finish it tick it off and move
on okay
academics at least for me my philosophy
is that my work comes first academics
are the most important thing that I'm
doing right now I can't become a doctor
if I don't study hard learn the material
and pass all of my exams you want to
make yourself pod you want to make your
parents proud and you want to do well
when I'm done with my tutorials or
lectures or workshops at school I make
sure that I put in a certain number of
hours to do my work whether that's at
the library or at home let's talk about
food so food is one of my favorites
actually because I really enjoy cooking
and a lot of people will say cooking
food is so hard it takes so much time I
don't know how to do it but after you've
been in the kitchen for
you've developed a couple of recipes
that you can have in a reservoir it
becomes so so simple cards proteins and
vegetables so when I cooked it's
important see that I always cook
involved if I'm making chicken breasts I
cook five chicken breasts at a time and
I cook up mounting the vegetables on top
of those if I'm cooking pasta I finish
the whole pack of pasta I cook it at
once and I just store it in Tupperware
and how they brought the week cooking
Inbal really helps save on both time and
money and trust me it's not as hard as
you think if you guys want I can make
some videos on cooking I'm not might be
able to help you out okay so I'm mid
editing and I realized that I forgot to
talk about exercise exercise is
something that I find really fun during
my week I play basketball with my high
school friends at a local leisure center
and I also go to the gym two to three
times a week I personally find that
exercise is a very good way to relieve
stress it's a very good way to have a
break from my academic life from seeing
other people it's that a long time that
you don't really get with a lot of other
activities and it helps me restart my
day so I spent almost two years in my
undergraduate degree telling myself I
didn't have time and I was working too
hard to go to the gym I find that you
have to make time for the gym around all
of your other schedules there's always
going to be an excuse for you not to go
there are literally no negative
consequences from going to the gym you
feel better by yourself physically your
mental health improves and you're gonna
look better so you might as well go
socializing and going down with friends
so on University more often than not
you're gonna find that there's a flat
party going on every single night and if
there isn't a flat party your friends
want to go out for drinks or they want
to go to the latest club it's just a
natural part of university so how do you
decide what to do the truth is that you
need to socialize you need to go out
with friends you need to have fun and
you need to enjoy yourself it's a really
sad life if you have no one to share
your experiences with a really important
thing that I had to learn was how to say
no I think that's really important
because it can be really easy to give in
to peer pressure and sometimes I can put
you in a lot of trouble if you find that
you're really really strapped for time
do things with your friends that you
would normally do anyway if you're gonna
have lunch or you're gonna have dinner
you might as well be doing it with your
friends the amount that you can
socialize really depends on how much
work you have so just know when to say
yes and when to say no do what really
makes you happy trust me it's not worth
hanging out with people who you don't
like or you don't care about
show you enough respect find people who
you truly care about who make you happy
and spend time with them also do the
activities that you enjoyed if your
friends are pressuring you to go to some
event that you really don't like you
don't have to go it's all about balance
just find a balance that works for you
okay so relaxation you need to take that
time for yourself to just chill out to
relax to have fun alone and sometimes
that can just be watching videos in your
bed and that could be going for a walk
maybe you like to watch a movie in the
cinema whatever it is just make sure you
give yourself that time I know for me
unless I'm in exam period the last one
and a half to two hours before I sleep
is spent completely in entertainment
doesn't have to be alone but I'm just
chilling I'm relaxing I'm not thinking
about work I'm not doing any work and
it's not occupying the relationships at
university relationships at university
can be difficult sometimes there are
quite a large emotional commitment and
also a time commitment but it's really
nice to be able to share your
experiences with someone to come home at
the end of the day and tell someone how
your classes were how your labs were all
the people you met what you did you're
there to support each other if you want
to make sure that your relationship
doesn't turn into a negative thing
during your university experience it's
important that you and your partner are
on the same page you need to tell them
how much work you have and usually that
needs to be comparable to how much work
they have - if one of you is super super
busy and the other one is free then
maybe they'll want you to go out more
they'll want to see you more often and
you might not be able to provide that
it's really important that you maintain
open communication talk about everything
that's going on if you have distance
between you as well
communication becomes even more
important so those are my best tips on
how to succeed and find balance at
university if you like this video feel
free to leave a thumbs up also subscribe
to the channel if you want to see more
videos from me please leave a comment
down below if there are any other ideas
that you want me to make videos on and
also don't forget to follow me on
Instagram anyway that's it for me and
I'll see you guys in the next one
[Music]